
            Quick Start for the Starlink JAVA build system
            ==============================================

   Prerequisites
   -------------

First make sure you have a 1.4.x J2SE SDK available. Downloads are available 
from:

   http://java.sun.com/

Currently all development is performed using version 1.4.x. The system is
known to build using 1.5, but it has not been extensively tested. The current
plans are to look at moving to 1.5 officially sometime during 2005. Note we
cannot distribute the SDK for licensing reasons.

You will also need to have JAI installed as part of the SDK. JAI is the "Java
Advanced Imaging API" which is currently part of SUNs "Desktop Java". The
version of JAI being used can be determined from the README-jai.txt file in
the Starlink JRE package (see the /star/java/jre directory).

Now define STAR_JAVA to point at the "java" command of this:

   setenv STAR_JAVA /some/where/j2sdk1.x.x/bin/java

Alternatively install the SDK into /star/java and create a file "jdkhome" in
this directory that contains the full name of the host directory (this is the
method used in JRE releases made by Starlink).

In addition to this you will need a Starlink classic installation. This is
required for building parts of SPLAT (and JNIAST/JNIHDS, although these
packages come with re-built native libraries for common platforms).

   Build ANT
   ---------

Since it's been necessary to add some extension tasks to ANT you need to use
the local release. To do this look in the "ant" directory and follow the
instructions in the "README.Starlink" file.

If you already have a STARJAVA installation you may be able to use the ANT
script found in the /star/starjava/bin directory, but if ANT reports that it
is finding unexpected elements in the build files you will need to rebuild
ANT.

   Start using the new ANT
   -----------------------

If you have built and installed ANT you now need to add the "java/bin"
directory that you should have created to your PATH (this the directory that
is now equivalent to "/star/bin" and would eventually be "/star/starjava/bin"
if released as part of the current system). You need the new "ant" command to
get our extensions and to use JUnit.

   Perform the build
   -----------------

Just type:

   % ant build

in the top-level "source" directory, and wait a while. This recurses into each
of the package subdirectories and performs "ant build" on each package. If it
reports that you cannot compile the Java files, make sure that the SDK is on
your PATH (a javac command is required).

If you have a classic Starlink installation that is not installed in /star,
you will need to re-define the ANT property "stardev". If we assume the new
root is "/star-local", then the simplest way to do this is just to use
-Dstardev=/star-local on the command-line:

   % ant -Dstardev=/star-local

Alternatively, if you expect to do this a lot, define the value in the file
$HOME/.stardev.properties, in which you should put the single line:

   stardev=/star-local

Other ANT properties can be added on additional lines.

   Install everything
   ------------------

   % ant install


   Test the installation
   ---------------------

If this all worked you should now be able to type:

   % ../bin/treeview

To use the applications FROG, SPLAT, SoG, TOPCAT and TREEVIEW you need to run
the various scripts found in the sub-directories of ../bin (if you have
STARJAVA already installed check the environment variables and aliases and
re-define these as appropriate).


Peter W. Draper 15-MAR-2005 (p.w.draper@durham.ac.uk)
